# **A Tour of Google Cloud Hands-on Labs # GSP282**

## **Lab fundamentals**

Test your understanding

This builds a temporary environment in Google Cloud.

- [ ] Credit
- [ ] Time
- [x] Start lab (button)
- [ ] Score

When the timer reaches 00:00:00, you will lose access to your temporary Google Cloud environment.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Some labs have tracking, which scores your completion of hands-on lab activities.

- [ ] False
- [x] True

In order to receive completion credit for a lab that has tracking, you must complete the required hands-on lab activities.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

## **Task 1: Accessing the Cloud Console**

Test your understanding

What field is NOT found in the left pane?

- [ ] Password
- [ ] Project ID
- [x] System admin
- [ ] Open Google console

The username in the left panel, which resembles googlexxxxxx_student@qwiklabs.net, is a Cloud IAM identity.

- [ ] False
- [x] True

<br>

---

## **Task 2: Projects in the Cloud console**

Test your understanding

An organizing entity for anything you build with Google Cloud.

- [ ] Cloud Storage bucket
- [x] Google Cloud Project
- [ ] Password
- [ ] Username

Qwiklabs Resources is shared (read only) with all Qwiklabs users, which means that you cannot delete or modify it.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Qwiklabs Resources is the project where you run all of your lab steps.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

<br>

---

## **Task 3: Roles and permissions**

Test your understanding

Offers quick access to the platform's services and also outlines its offerings.

- [ ] Compute
- [x] Navigation menu
- [ ] Cloud Operations
- [ ] Networking

Basic roles set project-level permissions and, unless otherwise specified, control access and management to all Google Cloud services.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Provides all viewer permissions, plus permissions for actions that modify state, such as changing existing resources.

- [ ] Google Cloud project
- [x] Editor role
- [ ] Viewer role

<br>

---

## **Task 4: APIs and services**

Enable Dialogflow API:

Navigation Menu > APIs & Services > Library > Dialogflow API > Enable

Or access this link: [Dialogflow API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/dialogflow.googleapis.com)

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Enable the Dialogflow API.

---

When you start a lab, you need to enable APIs in your project to start working with Google Cloud.

- [x] False
- [ ] True
