# **VPC Networks - Controlling Access # GSP213**

## **Variables Preparation**

Command to create variables that change every lab

    export REGION=<your region>
    export ZONE=<your zone>
    export PROJECT_ID=<your project id>

Command to set configurations to your cloud shell -- Optional

    gcloud config set project $PROJECT_ID
    gcloud config set compute/region $REGION
    gcloud config set compute/zone $ZONE

<br>

---

## **Task 1: Create the web servers**

Create the blue server

    gcloud compute instances create blue \
        --zone $ZONE \
        --tags web-server \
        --metadata=startup-script='#!/bin/bash
        apt-get update
        apt-get install nginx-light -y
        echo "<h1>Welcome to the blue server!</h1>" | tee /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html'

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Create the blue server.

---

Create the green server

    gcloud compute instances create green \
        --zone $ZONE \
        --metadata startup-script='#!/bin/bash
        apt-get update
        apt-get install nginx-light -y
        echo "<h1>Welcome to the green server!</h1>" | tee /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html'

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Create the green server.

- [x] Install Nginx and customize the welcome page.

---

## **Task 2: Create the firewall rule**

Create a tagged firewallrule

    gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-http-web-server \
        --action ALLOW \
        --rules tcp:80,tcp:8080,icmp \
        --source-ranges 0.0.0.0/0 \
        --target-tags web-server

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Create the tagged firewall rule.

---

Create a test-vm

    gcloud compute instances create test-vm \
        --machine-type f1-micro \
        --subnet default \
        --zone $ZONE

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Create a test-vm.

<br>

---

## **Task 3: Explore the Network and Security Admin roles**

Create a service account

    gcloud iam service-accounts create Network-admin \
        --display-name="Network-admin"

Select Compute Admin role for the service account

    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID \
        --member="serviceAccount:Network-admin@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
        --role="roles/compute.networkAdmin"

---

### **Check my progress**

- [x] Create a Network-admin service account.

<br>

---

The Network Admin role provides permissions to:

- [x] List the available firewall rules
- [ ] Neither list, create, modify, or delete the available firewall rules
- [ ] Delete the available firewall rules
- [ ] Create a firewall rules
- [ ] Modify the available firewall rules

The Security Admin role, provides permissions to:

- [x] Modify the available firewall rules
- [ ] Neither list, create, modify, or delete the available firewall rules
- [x] Create a firewall rules
- [x] Delete the available firewall rules
- [x] List the available firewall rules
